# Error Handling

Errors within the GraphQL engine can be thought of as falling into one of three groups: schema errors,
input errors and processing errors. For instance, if an invalid query was passed to the `DocumentExecuter`,
it would be considered an input error, and a `SyntaxError` would be thrown. Or if an invalid enum string
was passed as a variable to a query, an `InvalidValueError` would be thrown. All validation rules that
fail their respective tests are treated as input errors. Processing errors typically represent unanticipated
exceptions occurring during the execution of a field resolver, such as a timeout during a database operation.

Input errors and processing errors are returned from the `DocumentExecuter` within the `ExecutionResult.Errors`
property as a list of `ExecutionError` objects. `ExecutionError` is derived from `Exception`, and the `Message`
property is serialized [according to the spec](https://spec.graphql.org/October2021/#sec-Errors)
with location and path information. In addition, by default three additional pieces of information are serialized
to the `extensions` property of the GraphQL error which contain:

* Within `code`, the `Code` property of the `ExecutionError`, if any,
* Within `codes`, the `Code` property of the `ExecutionError` along with generated codes of any inner exceptions, if any, and
* Within `data`, the contents of the `ExecutionError.Data` property, which by default contains the data of the inner exception, if any.

Note that by default, messages from unhandled processing errors are masked and a
generic "Error trying to resolve field '<FIELD_NAME>'." or similar error is returned.

Here is a sample result of a `FormatException` thrown within a `product` field resolver (a processing error):
```json
{
  "errors": [
    {
      "message": "Error trying to resolve field 'product'.",
      "locations": [
        {
          "line": 3,
          "column": 5
        }
      ],
      "path": [
        "product"
      ],
      "extensions": {
        "code": "FORMAT",
        "codes": [
          "FORMAT"
        ]
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Schema Errors

Schema errors throw an exception during the process of defining or building the schema. For instance,
adding a two fields of the same name to a GraphQL type would result in an `ArgumentOutOfRangeException`
while attempting to add the second field. Another example would be if a schema defined an invalid union;
an error would be thrown while the schema was being initialized within `DocumentExecuter` and caught as
an unhandled exception (see [Processing Errors](#ProcessingErrors) below).

## Input Errors

All input errors generated by GraphQL.NET derive from `DocumentError`. Below is a list of error
messages and their respective error classes and codes:

Description | Error class | Code
-|-|-
Empty query document | NoOperationError | NO_OPERATION
Query parsing error | SyntaxError | SYNTAX_ERROR
Attempting a mutation or subscription when none are defined | InvalidOperationError | INVALID_OPERATION
Invalid variable values | InvalidVariableError | INVALID_VALUE
Validation errors | derived from ValidationError | [(varies; see list below)](#ValidationErrors)

Field resolvers can manually trigger an input error by throwing an `ExecutionError` or derived class.
Any other thrown error is treated as a processing error (see [Processing Errors](#ProcessingErrors) below).
Here is an example of typical validation within a field resolver that returns an input error:

```csharp
Field<NonNullGraphType<OrderGraph>>("order")
    .Argument<NonNullGraphType<IntGraphType>>("id")
    .Resolve(context =>
    {
        var order = _orderService.GetById(context.GetArgument<int>("id"));
        if (order == null)
            throw new ExecutionError("Invalid order id");
    });
```

You can also add errors to the `IResolveFieldContext.Errors` property directly.

```csharp
Field<DroidType>("hero")
    .Resolve(context =>
    {
        context.Errors.Add(new ExecutionError("Error Message"));
        return ...;
    });
);
```

## <a name="ProcessingErrors"></a>Processing Errors

Processing errors should only occur if an exception is thrown from within a field resolver.
For instance, if you execute `.Single()` on an empty array, causing an `InvalidOperationException`
to be thrown. These types of errors are most likely to be bugs or connection problems, such as a
connection error when communicating to a database. There are also two other types of processing
errors to be aware of:

* Calling `context.GetArgument<>` with a type that does not match the argument type, when the system
cannot perform the conversion – for instance, calling `context.GetArgument<Guid>("arg")` on an argument
of type `IntGraphType`, and
* Returning data from a field resolver that does not match the graph type of field resolver, when the
system cannot perform the conversion.

Processing errors can be thrown back to the caller of `DocumentExecuter.ExecuteAsync` by setting the
`ExecutionOptions.ThrowOnUnhandledExceptions` property to `true`. When this property is set to `false`,
the default setting, unhandled exceptions are wrapped in an `UnhandledError` and added with a generic
error message to the `ExecutionResult.Errors` property. Error codes are dynamically generated from the
inner exceptions of the wrapped exception and also returned along with data contained within the inner
exception's `Data` property.

You can also handle these processing exceptions by setting a delegate within the
`ExecutionOptions.UnhandledExceptionDelegate` property. Within the delegate you can log the error message
and stack trace for debugging needs. You can also override the generic error message with a more specific
message, wrap or replace the exception with your own `ExecutionError` class, and/or set the codes and data
as necessary. Note that if `ThrowOnUnhandledExceptions` is `true`, the `UnhandledExceptionDelegate` will not be called.

Here is a sample of a typical unhandled exception delegate which logs the error to a database.
It also returns the log id along with the error message:

```csharp
var executer = new DocumentExecuter();
var result = executer.ExecuteAsync(options =>
{

    ...

    options.UnhandledExceptionDelegate = async context =>
    {
        try
        {
            using var db = new MyDatabaseContext();
            var errorLog = new ErrorLog {
                DateStamp = DateTime.UtcNow,
                Message = context.Exception.Message,
                Details = context.Exception.ToString()
            };
            db.ErrorLogs.Add(errorLog);
            await db.SaveChangesAsync();
            context.Exception.Data["errorLogId"] = errorLog.Id;
        }
        catch
        {
        }
    };
});
```

You can also override the serialized exception by setting `context.Exception`, or simply replace
the message by setting `context.ErrorMessage` such as in this example:

```csharp
options.UnhandledExecutionDelegate = ctx =>
{
    if (ctx.Exception is SqlException)
        ctx.ErrorMessage = "A database error has occurred.";
};
```

## Error Serialization

After the `DocumentExecuter` has returned a `ExecutionResult` containing the data and/or errors,
typically you will pass this object to an implementation of `IGraphQLSerializer` to convert the
object tree into json. The `IGraphQLSerializer` implementations provided by the `GraphQL.SystemTextJson`
and `GraphQL.NewtonsoftJson` packages allow you to configure error serialization by providing an
`IErrorInfoProvider` implementation. If you are using a dependency injection framework, you can register
the `IErrorInfoProvider` instance and it will be consumed by the `IGraphQLSerializer` implementation
automatically. Please review the [serialization](../guides/serialization) documentation for more details.

## <a name="ValidationErrors"></a>Validation error reference list

Here is a full list of validation errors produced by GraphQL.NET:

Rule                              | Code                               | Number
----------------------------------|------------------------------------|-----------
UniqueOperationNames              | `UNIQUE_OPERATION_NAMES`           | 5.2.1.1
LoneAnonymousOperation            | `LONE_ANONYMOUS_OPERATION`         | 5.2.2.1
SingleRootFieldSubscriptions      | `SINGLE_ROOT_FIELD_SUBSCRIPTIONS`  | 5.2.3.1
FieldsOnCorrectType               | `FIELDS_ON_CORRECT_TYPE`           | 5.3.1
OverlappingFieldsCanBeMerged      | `OVERLAPPING_FIELDS_CAN_BE_MERGED` | 5.3.2
ScalarLeafs                       | `SCALAR_LEAFS`                     | 5.3.3
KnownArgumentNames                | `KNOWN_ARGUMENT_NAMES`             | 5.4.1
UniqueArgumentNames               | `UNIQUE_ARGUMENT_NAMES`            | 5.4.2
ProvidedNonNullArguments          | `PROVIDED_NON_NULL_ARGUMENTS`      | 5.4.2.1
UniqueFragmentNames               | `UNIQUE_FRAGMENT_NAMES`            | 5.5.1.1
KnownTypeNames                    | `KNOWN_TYPE_NAMES`                 | 5.5.1.2
FragmentsOnCompositeTypes         | `FRAGMENTS_ON_COMPOSITE_TYPES`     | 5.5.1.3
NoUnusedFragments                 | `NO_UNUSED_FRAGMENTS`              | 5.5.1.4
KnownFragmentNames                | `KNOWN_FRAGMENT_NAMES`             | 5.5.2.1
NoFragmentCycles                  | `NO_FRAGMENT_CYCLES`               | 5.5.2.2
PossibleFragmentSpreads           | `POSSIBLE_FRAGMENT_SPREADS`        | 5.5.2.3
ArgumentsOfCorrectType            | `ARGUMENTS_OF_CORRECT_TYPE`        | 5.6.1
DefaultValuesOfCorrectType        | `DEFAULT_VALUES_OF_CORRECT_TYPE`   | 5.6.1
UniqueInputFieldNames             | `UNIQUE_INPUT_FIELD_NAMES`         | 5.6.3
KnownDirectivesInAllowedLocations | `KNOWN_DIRECTIVES`                 | 5.7.1
KnownDirectivesInAllowedLocations | `DIRECTIVES_IN_ALLOWED_LOCATIONS`  | 5.7.2
UniqueDirectivesPerLocation       | `UNIQUE_DIRECTIVES_PER_LOCATION`   | 5.7.3
UniqueVariableNames               | `UNIQUE_VARIABLE_NAMES`            | 5.8.1
VariablesAreInputTypes            | `VARIABLES_ARE_INPUT_TYPES`        | 5.8.2
NoUndefinedVariables              | `NO_UNDEFINED_VARIABLES`           | 5.8.3
NoUnusedVariables                 | `NO_UNUSED_VARIABLES`              | 5.8.4
VariablesInAllowedPosition        | `VARIABLES_IN_ALLOWED_POSITION`    | 5.8.5
